OREGON PARK ALL-STAR RULES – Revised January 2023


The purpose of this document is to layout the guidelines on how the All-Star program is governed and organized at Oregon Park.  As a member park of Dizzy Dean Baseball, the purpose of the All-Star program at Oregon Park is to create teams by selecting players from the recreational league that will represent our park at Dizzy Dean District, State, and World Series tournaments.

For age groups 6-12, the board will consider “A” and “B” All-Star teams where the entire “A” team will be selected first, followed by the selection of the “B” team.  Additional All-Star teams may be approved by the Board based on the recommendations of the Age Group Coordinator. The Board will vote on this at the same time as they approve candidates for the ballot as listed below under All Star Manager Selection. Where additional teams are approved, each subsequent team must wait to fill their roster until the previous team’s confirmation is complete.

ALL-STAR MANAGER SELECTION

All regular season managers and named assistant coaches are eligible to manage an All-Star team. Any coach who would like to be considered as the manager of the “A” team must turn in an application to coach no later than the Friday prior to the January Board meeting. This application should be submitted to the Age Group Coordinator who will forward on a complete list of candidates to the All-Star Coordinator no later than the following Monday. The applicants should be reviewed by the President, Athletic Director, and Age Group Coordinator prior to the Board meeting so that a recommendation for approval or denial of the candidates can be made to the Board. The OPBA Board will meet at the January Board meeting to discuss the recommendations of the candidates and then approve or deny the request to be on the ballot. “A” team managerial candidates should have a child ranking in the top two rounds of the pre-season rankings. If no such candidate applies or is not approved to be on the ballot, the Age Group Coordinator may recommend a qualified candidate from outside the top two rounds.  If more than one candidate exists, a vote will take place at the draft where all named coaches will elect the “A” team coach from the list of qualified candidates.

Any coach who would like to be considered as the manager of any of the additional All-Star teams must turn in an application to coach no later than the Friday prior to the February Board meeting. This application should be submitted to the Age Group Coordinator who will forward on a complete list of candidates to the Athletic Director no later than the following Monday. The applicants should be reviewed by the President, Athletic Director, and Age Group Coordinator prior to the Board meeting so that a recommendation for approval or denial of the candidates can be made to the Board. The OPBA Board will meet at the February Board meeting to discuss the recommendations of the candidates and then approve or deny the request to be on the ballot. “B” team managerial candidates should have a child ranking in the top four rounds of the pre-season rankings. If no such candidate applies or is not approved to be on the ballot, the Age Group Coordinator may recommend a qualified candidate from outside the top four rounds.  If more than one candidate exists, a vote will take place on the second Sunday following Opening Day where all named coaches will elect the “B” team coach and any additional All-Star coaches from the list of qualified candidates.

All 3 assistant All Star coaches for each team will require Board approval before any team event can take place.

PLAYER EVALUATIONS

Any player wishing to participate in the Oregon Park All-Star season will be encouraged to participate in the open workout sessions. The open workout sessions will be open to any child that is registered in the Oregon Park Recreational Program. The open workout sessions will be coordinated by the Athletic Director and the Age Group Coordinator at each level. The open workout sessions will begin no earlier than the Sunday after Opening Day and should continue four consecutive weeks through the end of March when practical. These open workouts will be conducted by the “A” team coach with assistance provided by potential All-Star coach nominees and any recreational league coaches wishing to participate.

The first All-Star skills assessment will occur on the third Sunday following Opening Day with a second skills assessment to take place the following Sunday if necessary. However, no player selection should occur prior to the last Sunday in March without prior approval of the Athletic Director.  All players should be evaluated by league coaches and assistant coaches in attendance throughout the open workouts and then graded during the All-Star tryout process. Players should be graded on the following minimum criteria: hitting, throwing, fielding, catching and base running. Players should be ranked according to the grading process with the rankings submitted to the Age Group Coordinator and verified by the Athletic Director.

It is important to note that the All-Star skills assessment and scoring is just one part of the overall evaluation process to be done by All-Star coaches.  It is expected that All-Star coaches at Oregon Park attend as many league games as possible and are a visible scout throughout March during the player evaluation phase of this process.

PLAYER SELECTION
The “A” team manager must select 6 of the top 12 ranked players and can fill out his roster by selecting anyone else that was nominated. After the “A” team roster has been selected and confirmed, the “B” team coach must then select a minimum of 6 of the remaining players with the 12 highest rankings. The “B” team coach does not make his selections until after the “A” team coach has verified that all of the players selected are committing to playing throughout the All-Star season. Anyone offered a roster spot on the A team may not decline the offer and play for the B team.

ROSTER SIZE
The 6-8 age groups must have a minimum of 12 players per team, but a 13th   player can be selected if the manager chooses to play with 3 subs. The 9-12 age groups must have a minimum of 11 players per team, but a 12th   player can be selected if the manager chooses to play with 3 subs.

MISCELLANEOUS
The maximum amount any player can be charged is $600. The cost per player payable to OPBA is $325 and will be re-evaluated each spring prior to the All-Star selection process begins. This fee covers team uniforms, hats, helmets, bat bags, catcher’s equipment and insurance. Each team will charge an additional amount per player to cover other expenses such as tournament fees and additional uniform items.

Both A and B teams will receive green and white jerseys. If the A team meets the B team in a tournament, A will alert B of their uniform choice and B will wear the alternate. Only jerseys, pants and hats approved by the Oregon Park Board will be allowed to be worn in any tournament.

Bat bags will be provided for the team and must be green in color. Embroidery on the bag is limited to the below: Official OP Block Letter Logo as provided by Oregon Park
“Oregon Park All-Stars” Player Name
No team names or any other information is to be put on bat bags.

All-Star helmets must bear no markings other than the official OP Logo as provided by Oregon Park.  Player numbers may be added.  Parents are encouraged to add a facemask or C-Flap at their discretion.

THERE IS NO GUARANTEED OR MINIMUM PLAYING TIME FOR ANY ALL STAR PLAYER. THE HEAD COACH HAS THE SOLE RESPONSIBILITY TO DECIDE PLAYING TIME FOR ALL PLAYERS. ALL ALL- STAR TEAMS WILL USE THE CONTINUOUS BATTING/FREE SUBSTITUTION OPTION WHEN AVAILABLE.

No player will be placed on an All-Star team without approval of the All-Star committee. If a player quits and needs to be replaced the manager must have OP All Star committee approval before adding a new player.

No player shall have more than 2 unexcused absences during the scheduled practices and scheduled games. For any scheduling conflict between a player’s OP rec team schedule and All-Star schedule, preference must be given to the rec schedule.

If an All-Star player quits prior to the end of the season, he or she will not be eligible for an All-Star team the following season. If there are extenuating circumstances, the player may appeal to the All-Star Committee. This should be done prior to the following spring season beginning.

Oregon Park All-Star teams are required to participate at the Dizzy Dean District Tournament. Any team that qualifies for the Dizzy Dean Sanctioned State Tournament is required to participate. Any team that qualifies for the Dizzy Dean Invitational State Tournament can choose to participate at the head coach’s discretion in consultation with the Athletic Director. While the teams can choose to play in more than the required, no qualifying Oregon Park All-Star team shall be allowed to avoid playing in the tournaments listed above. If a coach is found to have violated this rule, they will be removed as the coach of the All-Star team and be banned from coaching in ANY capacity or taking the field with any team at Oregon Park for at least one year. If a coach is found to have circumvented the All-Star process by creating a team outside of Oregon Park whereby the team is comprised of players who would have been selected by either the “A” or “B” team, that coach will be banned from coaching in ANY capacity or taking the field with any team at Oregon Park for at least one year.
