OREGON PARK BASEBALL ASSOCIATION RULES AND REGULATIONS Revised January 2022

Any rules not covered by the park rules, league rules, or Dizzy Dean rules are covered by the Official Baseball Rules of Major League Baseball and the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues.

The Oregon Park Baseball Association (OPBA) is a non-profit organization that offers an instructional baseball program for youth from ages 4 to 12.  OPBA is dedicated to teaching the youth of our community the fundamental skills of baseball.  Our emphasis is on developing physical fitness, sportsmanship, teamwork, and leadership skills in a positive and safe environment.  We strive to provide opportunities for all participants to develop individual skills and abilities while being a contributing member of a team.  It is important to OPBA that we provide a way for our athletes to build lasting friendships, great memories, and have fun!



LEAGUE ORGANIZATION

A.	League names and ages are as follows.  Age is determined by Dizzy Dean designation using the age of the player on April 30 of the current or upcoming spring season:

League Name	Age Range
T-Ball (Traditional)	4 and 5 year olds
T-Ball (Saturday Only)	4 and 5 year olds
6U	6 year olds
7U	7 year olds
8U	8 year olds
9U	9 year olds
10U	10 year olds
11/12U	11 and 12 year olds

B.	No player shall be a member of Oregon Park Baseball and any other baseball association at the same time. No player may participate in Oregon Park’s rec baseball program while being on the roster of any travel baseball organization unless cleared with the league President and Athletic Director.

C.	All registrants are expected to be present for skills assessments. In the event a player does not attend skill assessments, the managers may rank such player(s) based upon prior play and knowledge of such player(s). This rank must be agreed to by a majority of the managers present.  If any player is not ranked on the draft sheet, his/her name will be placed in the player pool and will be ineligible for the draft.  Such players will be placed randomly on teams after the draft is complete.  The number of teams in each division will be determined by the number of eligible registrants.

D.	Players may be eligible to play up one age group from their Dizzy Dean designation under the following conditions:

a.	A parent of the player must send an email to the Athletic Director acknowledging their intent to have their child tryout to play up by 1PM on the Friday prior to skills evaluation.

b.	Neither parent can be the head coach of a team in their current or desired age group but they can be a named assistant in either. If there is a situation where a head coaching spot may be vacated, coaches will be encouraged to switch the roles of the head coach and assistant coach in their current age group so as to minimize the impact on the league should the player be allowed to play up.

c.	The player must attend both skills evaluations for both their current and desired age groups. In order for a player to play up, they must rank in the top 20% of total players in the desired age group. The total number of players in the age group shall be identified as the number of players in the age group at the conclusion of skills evaluation. If the 20% number does not equal a whole number, the cut off will be rounded down. As an example, if 20% of players in a league = 22.8, the cutoff would be 22 and the player attempting to play up would need to rank out at any position 1 – 22.

d.	The desired age group must have available room to accommodate the player(s) attempting to play up. Oregon Park will not turn away players of a certain age to allow younger players to play up.

e.	If the number of eligible players to play up exceeds the number of available roster spots, players will be allowed to play up with the players receiving the highest ranking being given the first opportunity.

f.	Any player playing up would only be eligible for the All-Star team at the age group where they played the spring season. Players would not be allowed to play down for All-Stars if they played up during the recreational season.

E.	Teams in T-Ball through 8U will consist of no more than twelve (12) players.  Teams in ages 9 and up will consist of no more than eleven (11) players.

F.	Players registering after the draft will be put on teams only if there is room on the rosters.  Players will be placed on the team that was scheduled to draft next. See Draft Procedures for additional rules

G.	All players will be drafted according to league rules. Players will be added via random order that is drawn at the draft. If a team has lost a player since the draft they will automatically be assigned the next available player (s) until such time that they have the same roster size as when the draft was completed. See Draft Procedures for additional rules.

H.	Sons/Daughters of the manager and one (1) coach will automatically be assigned to their teams.  The draft sheet will then be made from the rankings. No consideration will be given for transportation problems in placing players on teams. 

I.	All named head and assistant coaches must pass a background check and have an OP issued badge visible at games and practices (see OP Badge Rules).  All managers and coaches must be actively involved by either base coaching, scoring, etc. within the confines of the playing field.

J.	A manager and/or coach is expected to be available and present at the field for all practices and games. No practice or game may begin without the presence of a member of the team who has been approved by OPBA and successfully completed a background check.

K.	All managers will be required to have the team folder in his/her possession during all practices and games.  The contents will include the OPBA Rules and Regulations and the roster of all players on the team.  The roster contains the information needed in case of an emergency.  OPBA will not consider any protest or challenge of an umpire’s decision or interpretation of any rule unless the protesting manager is in compliance with this paragraph.

L.	A file will be kept by the Athletic Director on all managers/coaches in order to verify credentials.  This will include background check, prior coaching experience, other information the manager/coach wishes to include, and information received from parents, players, umpires, and other managers/coaches’ relative to a particular manager/coach.  This information will be utilized by the Board to aid in the approval/disapproval of managers for each season of play.

M.	Manager Selection – The OP Board will select head coaches for each age group to help ensure the best possible experience for the players. In the spring, preference will be given to returning head coaches from the previous spring season. In the fall, preference will be given to returning head coaches from the previous fall season. Other factors taken into consideration are coaching experience at all age levels at Oregon Park (including rec, All Star and Travel teams), coaching experience outside of Oregon Park, and feedback from parents, coaches, and umpires from prior seasons. The OP Board will approve all coaches every season, regardless if the coach is returning from a previous season. 


OREGON PARK SKILLS ASSESSMENT GUIDELINES

A.	Each year Oregon Park will attempt to hold skills tests for players in ages 6-12. These tests will be conducted per a published schedule or re-scheduled if the OPBA Board deems it necessary.

B.	All efforts will be made to perform these skills test on the age appropriate field, the OPBA Board reserves the right to move skills tests to different fields or areas of the park as needed.

C.	Each coordinator will be provided a soft and hard copy of the players in his/her age group. 

D.	No changes are to be made to this list, nor players added or removed without contacting the Auxiliary Coordinator or their designee. This will help to prevent people from showing up on two lists, being in the wrong age or trying to be added without registering.

E.	With the exception of pitcher and catcher positions, skills test are to be conducted in the following areas, and any additional areas at the league coordinators’ discretion: batting, fielding and throwing

F.	All age groups will use the same basic worksheet for entering data.

G.	All age groups will use a 1-10 ranking system for all skill areas. 

H.	All coaches must be present and/or send a representative to the skills test. 

I.	Coaches must provide a final score for every player that attends the skills assessment and those players that do not attend and are ranked by a vote of the group. 

J.	Once approved, coordinators may print out draft rankings. 

K.	No draft rankings may be handed out until 1 hour before the start of a draft, no draft rankings may be e-mailed to anyone except the Athletic Director and President. 

L.	Draft rankings are not to be disclosed by coaches or Board Members and doing so may result in disciplinary action.

M.	Coaches children are to be ranked based on ability and must be ranked by the majority if they cannot attend. If the majority does not agree and/or the players parent so chooses, the Athletic Director, President and age group Coordinator may rank the player.

N.	Draft rankings shall indicate the players of head and assistant coaches. All-Star players from the previous year should be identified as such.

DRAFT PROCEDURES

Drafting procedures for all leagues will be as follows:

A.	The draft will be conducted by the President, Athletic Director, League Coordinator, Auxiliary coordinator and other Board Members as deemed necessary by the President and Athletic Director.

B.	All players will enter into the draft each year, except for 4/5U. 4/5U teams will be divided into equal 4 & 5 year olds per team if possible.

C.	Each player must accept the draw of the draft as the determination of the team on which they will play, provided that all requests received in writing by the President and/or Athletic Director from parents requesting not to play for 1 Manager or Coach have been considered.

D.	Drafts dates, times and location will be determined by the league President and Athletic Director. Managers, their named Assistant or their approved representative are the only people that are permitted to draft for their team. Managers may not have an unnamed assistant in the room with them if such unnamed assistant has a child to be drafted in the age group.

E.	Children are not permitted in the draft room while drafts are in process.

F.	League Coordinators may hand out final approved draft rankings to their Managers no earlier than 60 minutes before the scheduled start of the draft.  Softcopies of final draft ranking sheets may not be distributed to managers.

G.	Assistant Coaches must be identified to the league coordinator prior to the handing out of draft rankings. Once rankings are handed out, assistants may not be named until after the draft process is complete.

H.	Once draft rankings are approved they may not be changed.

I.	All draft sheets must remain in the draft room at the conclusion of the draft.

J.	Draft order will be determined by a lottery at skills assessment, with each team drawing a number. The draft order will be recorded by the President or Athletic Director in a worksheet designed for such.

K.	If a team does not have a coach, the President or Athletic Director will draft the team by selecting the next highest ranked available player. This team’s draft order will be determined the same as all other teams.

L.	At the time of the draft order is recorded each team will identify both coach’s children and the rounds in which they appear. This information will also be recorded in the above worksheet.

M.	After the draft order is recorded, the league coordinator will identify any special cases, such as siblings that are to be drafted together. The higher ranked person will be the team’s choice in the round they are picked and the lower ranked person will be drafted in the round they appear or the next draft round if such round has passed.

N.	Only complete rounds may be drafted. Remaining players will be placed in a hat round and selected in the final round of the draft.

O.	Hat pick players may not be drafted, but only chosen as part of the hat pick round(s). The team that is listed as # 1 on the draft worksheet will select first in the Final Hat pick round, regardless of where the last round ended.

P.	There shall be no trades.

Q.	The Board of Directors may in very special circumstances assign a player to a team. That player will be drafted by that team in his or her ranked round and all teams will be notified of such by the league coordinator prior to the draft. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, family medical needs, family needs due to military deployment and/or medical needs of the player.

R.	No discussion of rankings is permitted outside of the draft room or outside of the Board of Directors.

S.	Parents are entitled to designate one (1) Coach per season who cannot draft their player.  The request must be submitted to the Age Group Coordinator and Athletic Director via email.

T.	Should a player choose not to be coached by a particular head or assistant coach no discussion between the coach(es) and that player or their family may take place unless such is initiated by the player’s family.

EQUIPMENT

A.	Equipment must not be altered in any way.  No coloring of helmets or decals will be allowed on any piece of equipment provided by OPBA.

B.	Approved batting tees (unaltered) will be provided to each team if necessary for in game use.

C.	Any manager or coach needing extra equipment or use of any other items will be required to leave a deposit with the equipment manager.

D.	Provided equipment shall be returned for coaches who are no longer coaching at Oregon Park.  Watch for a bulletin to be posted for exact dates and times for equipment return.  Please try to return the equipment in a clean condition.  

E.	No steel or metal spiked shoes are allowed at Oregon Park.  Tennis shoes are acceptable.

F.	At 9U through 12U, catchers must wear a masked helmet, chest protector, shin guards, athletic cup, and should wear a catcher’s mitt (if available) during play.  Catchers at 8U and under shall wear helmets and chest protectors.

G.	All bats used at an OP event must be made of wood or an approved alloy. Metal bats must have either the USA Baseball or 1.15BPF stamp easily visible.  Any player using an illegal bat during an at bat shall be declared out.  An at bat shall be deemed to have begun after the first pitch of the at bat is thrown.

H.	Each batter/base runner must wear a batting helmet at all times, including while in the batting cages.  The batting helmet should not be removed until the player is back in the dugout.  Batting helmets with face masks are required for all ages. Players at 9U, 10U and 11/12U have the option to wear a helmet with a C-Flap in place of a face mask. Any player running the bases who deliberately removes his headgear (in the umpire’s judgment) should be given a warning and on any subsequent offense will be called out. EXCEPTION: Home run over the fence or time out.

I.	All teams will be issued practice and game balls with their equipment. The game balls should be saved for games. If additional game balls are needed they must be the same type as the issued balls. Below are the preferred game balls. Others may be used if approved by the rules committee.

a.	4/5U will use the Wilson 1228 ball
b.	6U – 12U will use the Wilson A1075BPL ball


OREGON PARK BASEBALL UNIFORMS

A.	Oregon Park shall as part of the registration fee provide a uniform for each player. Teams are required to wear the full uniforms furnished by OPBA. No team shall purchase any additional pieces for the team to wear. All jerseys must be tucked in.

B.	Teams are responsible to place their players’ last names and a jersey number on the back of the uniform at their own expense.

C.	Teams may for Fall ball choose to wear whatever style baseball pants they desire. It is suggested that these pants be the style that the majority of the team already owns, to reduce cost.

D.	OPBA will do its best to provide appropriate size jerseys for each age group. OPBA may not be able to exchange shirts for different sizes. OPBA will arrange designated times for the exchange of pants if needed. If pants are not exchanged at this time, OPBA cannot guarantee that pants of a specific size will be available

E.	No helmets that have been airbrushed with offensive or inappropriate images or words may be worn.

OREGON PARK CONDUCT AND SPORTSMANSHIP RULES

Managers will be responsible for the conduct of themselves, and their coaches, players, parents, and fans.  If in the opinion of the coach or manager, a player displays unsportsmanlike conduct, that player can be removed from the game by the manager. 

Each manager/coach will emphasize to each child the care of equipment and safety measure, and will practice good sportsmanship at all times.

Players initiating and participating in any fights at practice, or in games, will receive mandatory suspensions.  Depending upon the severity of the incident, a player will receive a minimum one week suspension, and a maximum of one full season suspension from all OPBA activities.  A second incident may result in permanent suspension from the OPBA.  The league coordinator of the age group involved, Athletic Director, and the League President will decide on the length of each suspension.  Written records of suspensions will be maintained and held by the League President.  Cobb County will be advised of any actions taken by the OPBA.


OREGON PARK COMMON BASEBALL RULES

A.	TIME / INNING RULE: 

a.	All times are based on the Umpires official start time as recorded in the score book and agreed to at the plate meeting. If the time to start a new inning has passed and the Home Team is ahead the game will be stopped. The maximum number of innings is to be used to determine the final inning of the game. 

Age Group	Max. # of Innings	No new inning after	Maximum runs per inning.
T-Ball (Sat. Only)	2	1:00	N/A
T-Ball (Traditional)	4	1:10	N/A
6U, 7U & 8U	6	1:10	7
9U & 10U	6	1:25	5
11/12U	6	1:40	5

b.	The maximum number of runs per inning will still be enforced in the event a player hits an over the fence home run. That player will be allowed to round the bases and touch home plate, but in no circumstances can a team score more than the maximum number of runs per inning according the above table.

c.	A new inning begins as soon as the third out in the home team’s half of an inning is recorded.

B.	For in-park play, a game will be considered to be a complete game if the time limit expires before the number of innings for an official game are met (i.e. if in 7 year old ball 1:10 expires and only two innings of baseball are played, the game will be considered complete).

C.	In regular season play, it is a regulation game if it is called by the umpire due to darkness, inclement weather, or other cause which in the umpire’s judgment interfered with further play, provided that:

a.	Three (3) or more innings have been played, or
b.	Two and one half (2 ½) innings shall constitute a legal game if the home team is ahead at the end of the half inning, or before the end of the third (3rd) inning if the home team is ahead
c.	In the event of a partial inning beyond 3 innings: 
i.	if the visiting team has not completed batting or the visiting team is ahead, you revert back to the last completed inning
ii.	If one-half inning is completed and the home team is ahead, the game is ended at that point with the home team winning

D.	In the event that a game is halted before completion for any cause, it must be resumed from the point of interruption when the game is rescheduled by the Athletic Director with as nearly the same lineup as possible.

E.	FIELD DIMENSIONS:
	Base Distance	Pitching Distance	Home to 2nd	Pitching Circle	Foul Arc
T-Ball	50 feet	39 feet	55 feet	10 feet	20 feet
6U, 7U, 8U	60 feet	46 feet	84 feet	10 feet	20 feet
9U & 10U	60 feet	46 feet	84 feet	N/A	N/A
11/12U	70 feet	50 feet	99 feet	N/A	N/A

a.	Base distance: is measured from the point of home plate to the back corner of the bag and from the outside edges of the bags

b.	Pitching distance: is measured from the point of home plate to the front of the pitching rubber

c.	Home to 2nd is measured from the point of home plate to the back point of second base

d.	Foul Arc: is measured from the point of the plate.

F.	PARTICIPATION RULE: 

a.	All batters will be included in the batting order, thus allowing free substitution. For defensive purposes, no player shall sit a second inning until all players at the current game have sat a first inning.  No player shall sit a third inning until all players at the current game have sat a second inning.  This rule continues as long as the game is in progress and throughout both the regular season and postseason tournament. 

b.	Player’s parents and opposing managers will monitor playing time. Any complaints or discrepancies should be reported to the umpire as soon as the infraction occurs.  Any protests regarding player participation must be submitted in writing to both the Age Group Coordinator and the Athletic Director. Discrepancies or complaints should be reported within 2 hours of the completion of the game in question.

c.	All managers should designate an official team scorekeeper to record both their team’s and the opposing team’s statistics, roster moves, etc.  This data will be used when/if a discrepancy occurs over playing time.

d.	Failure to adhere to the above rules will cause a forfeiture of the game in which the incident occurs.  A ruling will be made by the President or Athletic Director and the Coordinator of the respective age group, after review of the scorekeeper books.  An exception to the above playing rule is if any prolonging injury or sickness occurs during the game or during the season, which will not allow a specific individual to continue.  That player will be exempt from the rule.

e.	In addition, an exception to the rule will be granted if there is a disciplinary problem (with just cause) with a player.  Their manager must however notify the opposing manager, official scorekeeper, and the player’s parents prior to the start of the game.  If the problem occurs during the game, the manager must notify the umpire, opposing coach, and official scorekeeper.

f.	As a recreational park/association, the intent of the above rule is to ensure each player, regardless of skill level, is afforded an equal opportunity to learn how to play multiple positions and to participate in games throughout the recreational regular season. It is the wishes of the OPBA board for all coaches to do their best to provide equal playing time across games as well as at infield and outfield positions.

g.	The first offense of violating either of the above rules will result in the manager being issued a warning, and asked to attend a meeting with the President and/or Athletic Director and the coordinator of the respective age group, to discuss the issue.  A second offense will result in a three game suspension for the manager.  A third incident will result in dismissal of the manager from his/her duties.  Any violations of the above rules will be considered when approving coaches prior to the beginning of the following season.

G.	MANAGER EJECTION: 

a.	In the event a manager or coach is ejected from a game, he/she shall leave the playing field immediately, and proceed to their car in the parking lot until completion of such game.  Any ejected party must become out of sight and sound immediately.  Failure to do so will result in automatic forfeiture of the game.

b.	The penalty for the first ejection during the season is a three game suspension starting with the next game.  A second ejection during the season will result in the manager or coach being dismissed from their coaching duties in the OPBA for the remainder of the season.

c.	If a manager or coach feels that he/she was wrongly ejected, he/she can appeal to the special committee for reversal.  A three person committee consisting of the President, Athletic Director and the Coordinator of the respective age group will review any appeal made, and issue a ruling within forty-eight (48) hours of such appeal.

d.	A manager or coach who makes physical contact considered to be “flagrant” in nature, with any umpire, manager, coach, player, spectator or Board Member will automatically be dismissed from managing or coaching at OPBA for the remainder of the season.  (Note: The definition of the term “flagrant” will be left solely to the Oregon Park Board Members on the appeal committee.)

H.	APPEALS AND PROTESTS: 

a.	Only the manager for each team will be permitted to approach the umpire for a questioned call, Assistant coaches shall not be permitted to approach any umpire to question any call. 

b.	A questioned call can only be one of a rules interpretation and not a judgment call. A manager has the right to question an umpire’s interpretation of the rules provided that he does so immediately and before the next pitch. 

c.	The manager must call time to question the umpire. When the questioned interpretation is brought to the attention of the plate umpire, he may confer with the other umpire. 

d.	On an appeal in a coach-pitch game (T-Ball through 8U), the manager must identify the correct player by name or number and also the correct base involved in the play; no second chance if he names the wrong player or base. If he is correct, the base runner is out.

e.	Appeals must be made before the next pitch is thrown. 

f.	The manager must notify the umpire if the game is being played under protest immediately on the play situation that caused the condition. 

g.	A protest based on a play situation shall be considered only if it is placed in writing and submitted to the League President, Athletic Director, or respective Coordinator within two (2) hours of the completion of the game.  

h.	A $100.00 fee must accompany each protest.  The fee will be returned if the committee rules in favor of the protesting party.

I.	TIE BREAKERS RULE: 

a.	If there is a tie at the end of the season due to the same divisional record, head-to-head competition during the season will be the tie breaker.  For a tie with more than 2 teams, head-to-head will only be considered if one team has gone undefeated and untied -OR- winless and untied versus all other tied teams.  Those teams would be seeded at the top/bottom of the tied teams and tie breaking begins again for the remaining teams.

b.	If head-to-head competition during the regular season cannot be resolved between 2 or more teams, then total runs allowed will be the tie breaker.   If total runs allowed is the same among tied teams, runs scored will be used as the next tie breaker.

c.	If there is still a tie the President, Athletic Director and League Coordinator will hold a coin flip to break the tie for tournament seeding.

J.	FORFEIT RULE:

a.	During the regular season, there will be no forfeitures or outs recorded in the lineup due to the inability of a team to field the required number of players.  

b.	A team fielding less than the minimum number of defensive players (ten (10) at 6U - 8U & nine (9) at 9U - 12U) may use a recreational player or players from the same age group once the opposing coach has been notified. 

c.	At no time may a team exceed the minimum number of players by adding additional players not currently on their roster.  

d.	Teams must field their infield first and the player(s) selected will play an outfield position. 

e.	At no time will the additional players be allowed to bat. 

f.	The game will be considered an official game and count in the standings.

K.	THE SLIDE RULE (COLLISION AVOIDANCE RULE) 

a.	Will be in effect for all age groups. 

b.	This rule is in force for any runner at any base where the ball is in the glove (in possession) of the fielder and he is attempting to make a tag. In this instance, THE RUNNER MUST SLIDE OR ATTEMPT TO AVOID A COLLISION WITH A FIELDER. If not, the runner is declared out.

c.	If a deliberate attempt to injure is determined by the umpire, the runner is ejected from the game and a report must be made to the Board of Directors for further disciplinary action.

d.	It should be noted that a fielder while NOT in possession of the ball and not attempting to field the ball, may be guilty of obstruction if that fielder impedes the progress of a runner. It is entirely up to the judgment of the umpire as to whether a fielder is in the act of obstructing a runner.

e.	If, in the judgment of the umpire, a player attempts a head first slide he will be called out unless returning to the base he previously occupied.

L.	WEATHER RULES: 

a.	Rainouts or other weather related cancelations will be rescheduled by the President or Athletic Director. 

b.	The League Coordinators are responsible for notifying all affected coaches of reschedules. The rescheduled game MUST be played on the date and time indicated.  The Athletic Director will be responsible for notifying the proper personnel for rescheduling umpires.

c.	If in the opinion of the President and Athletic Director the fields are playable, ALL games will be played on all fields. Any Coach refusing to send his team on the field after this determination is made shall have 2 minutes from the start time of the game to do so or he will forfeit. If the refusing coach is batting first, after 2 minutes, the Umpire shall direct the pitcher to pitch and for each pitch in which the batter is not in the box a strike shall be recorded.

d.	When the fields are closed by the OPBA Board, this includes all fields and both infields and outfields. Unless specifically mentioned batting cages are available. The use of any field during this time is prohibited.

e.	In the event of rain or lightning during a game, ALL games will be halted at the same time. Games halted for lightning shall be halted for fifteen (15) minutes from the time of the last visible strike. If any umpire or OPBA board member clears any field for lightning, all fields shall immediately be cleared. In the event of rain, stop all games at the same time, attempt to get mounds covered and hold all teams at the park for no less than thirty (30) minutes after which time a decision will be made by the board member on duty after conferring with the President and/or the Athletic Director.
 
OREGON PARK COMMON AND SAFETY RULES

A.	At least one Oregon Park Board Member is on duty during all games, they can be found by going to the main concession stand across from field three.

B.	Team practices and games combined are not to exceed four days per week (The week starts Sunday and ends Saturday)

C.	All games must be played in accordance with the master game schedule (developed by the Athletic Director).

D.	The umpire will ensure that the time between the final out of one half of an inning and the first pitch of the next half inning will not exceed two (2) minutes.

E.	During any practice or game, only two players will be allowed to have bats in their hands.  They will be the batter at the plate and the man in the on-deck area.  No swinging of bats in or outside the dugout by any other players will be allowed.

F.	The use of infields is prohibited after such fields have been prepared for play, this includes all fields and no activity is to take place in the infields. Prepared for play includes dragging and/or lining.

G.	Teams are responsible for ensuring that bases are put in prior to the start of the game and removed and replaced by base pods at the end of the last practice or game.

H.	Teams are responsible for making sure that their dugouts and fan stands are cleaned out at the end of each practice and game.

I.	No balls other than plastic balls are to be hit or thrown into any fence, this includes in Batting Cages.

J.	Batting cages are to be used for batting practice, batting practice prior to games may NOT be taken on any field.

K.	L Screens are NOT to be removed from any batting cage at any time.

L.	Portable mounds should be moved by Board or County personnel only.

M.	No climbing on or swinging from fences. This includes in dugouts.

N.	No climbing on trees or storage containers.

O.	No throwing of balls or swinging of bats in any blacktop areas of the park. These include the areas in front of or on the side of the concession stand, the pavilion area and in front of field two.

P.	Bicycles, Roller Blades, Skateboards, Scooters etc. are not permitted in the park during practices and games.
 
OREGON PARK COACH PITCH RULES (T-BALL, 6U, 7U, 8U)
A.	An offensive coach will pitch to his own batters. The coach may only coach the batter until he reaches first (1st) base or after he leaves third (3rd) base. The coach will be replaced after one warning of a violation

B.	The pitcher may pitch anywhere from in front of the 20 foot foul arc to the pitching circle, he may not cross the foul line or enter the pitching circle. He must keep one foot on or astraddle the pitching-line. He must pitch overhand. PENALTY: For not standing on or astraddle the pitching-line the defensive team gets the choice of the play or re-bat.

C.	Any batted ball that hits the pitching coach will be a dead ball and a no pitch. If the pitching coach intentionally (in the umpire’s judgment) allows the ball to hit him the batter will be out and a dead ball called. No runner may advance

D.	The offensive coach (pitcher) must attempt to leave the field and try to pick up the batter's bat. The offensive coach (pitcher) that does not attempt to get off the field and interferes with the defensive player to keep him from making a play will cause the batter to be out. No runners advance

E.	Catchers are not permitted to crouch they must be in a standing position.

F.	Pitchers must wear either a helmet with a face mask or a protective mask designed for baseball.

G.	The infield fly rule will not be in effect.

H.	No rolling the ball intentionally will be allowed. No outs will be allowed by rolling the ball. Runners will automatically be safe if the defensive team rolls the ball. (Umpire’s decision)

I.	Teams may play more than two games in one day with the approval of the Oregon Park Baseball Association.

J.	If a player is injured, by being hit with a batted ball in the face, throat, or head, time will be called immediately and all players will be awarded one (1) base if injury is to an infielder, two (2) bases if injury is to an outfielder. The awards are from the time of the pitch. Any other injury, deemed serious enough in the judgment of the umpire, will be handled in the same manner. Note: This is a judgment call and cannot be appealed or protested. 
 
OREGON PARK KID PITCH RULES (9U, 10U AND 11/12U)

A.	A pitcher is allowed to pitch no more than three (3) innings in a game. For the purposes of the maximum number of innings a player can pitch, 1 pitch in an inning constitutes 1 inning pitched.

B.	All coaches must have a designated person (coach or parent) to keep track of their and the opponents pitch counts. The designated counter will meet with the opponents designated counter between every half inning to verify pitch counts. Once the number is agreed upon it should be entered into both scorebooks with the home book being the official book.

C.	The coach will be responsible for recording the pitch count on the Oregon Park website no later than 3pm the following day or no later than 2 hours prior to the start of their next game. Both coaches will go to OregonPark.com and enter pitch counts for both team’s pitchers. If there is a discrepancy, the coordinator will contact both coaches to come to an agreement on correct pitch counts. Any team that does not enter its pitch counts will not be allowed to play in the next game at the discretion of the age group coordinator. Any coach who allows a player to exceed the allowed number of pitches, will be disciplined by the OPBA Board.  The first offense will be a written warning. Second offense is a one game suspension. Third offense will result in suspension for remainder of year.

D.	Once a pitcher has been removed from the mound, he may not return to the mound in the same game.

E.	Any player who toes the rubber and takes a warm up pitch to begin an inning will be the pitcher of record for that inning and must face a batter to completion before he can be substituted for.

F.	The strike zone shall comply with major league rules.

G.	The infield fly rule is in effect.

H.	An intentional walk will count as pitches to a pitcher’s pitch count equal to the number of pitches remaining to reach ball four.

I.	If a team is leading its opponent by more than fifteen (15) runs at the end of the third (3rd) inning or more than ten (10) runs at the end of the fourth (4th) inning or more than five (5) runs at the end of the fifth (5th) the game shall be terminated and the team in front declared the winner. Umpires shall not call a game early before a team has been mathematically eliminated.

J.	There will be no suicide squeeze plays. Nor will a player be allowed to steal home on a ball thrown by a pitcher to the batter.  If the ball gets past the catcher the runner may advance at his own risk.  The penalty for attempting a suicide squeeze or stealing home is as follows: The base runner will be called out and the third base coach will be ejected from the game.
 
OREGON PARK RULES T-BALL

A.	OFFENSE:

a.	The offensive batter will receive up to 3 pitches. After this the ball will be placed onto a tee for the batter to hit.

b.	Bunting is not allowed.

c.	When a team is at bat, offensive coaches are allowed only at the base coach boxes, the pitching circle, and the end of the dugout. There may be a batting coach behind home plate in the designated area. Batting coaches may position the batter and adjust the tee one (1) time for each batter.

d.	During regular season play no outs or runs will be recorded. However, if a player is properly put out he/she must be removed from the field.

e.	When a batting tee is used on the playing field, it will be placed with the center point of the tee in the middle of the plate.

f.	On an overthrow at first base, runners may advance 1 additional base at their own risk but cannot advance beyond 2 bases from where they were when the ball was pitched. A ball is considered overthrown when it is thrown from an infielder (catcher, pitcher, 3rd baseman, shortstop, or 2nd baseman) and goes past the 1st baseman either in foul territory or into the outfield. ex. On an overthrow at 1B, the batter could advance no further than 2B, a runner at 1B could advance no further than 3B, and runners at 2B and 3B could score on the play.

g.	Any base runner leaving the base before the ball reaches home plate will be sent back to the base. The ball is dead and all other runners return to base occupied prior to pitch. The pitch will not count. (umpire’s decision).

h.	After one warning per game per player for slinging his bat, the batter will be out, a dead ball called, and no runners advance.

i.	Base coaches shall remain in their coaching boxes at all times, unless playing dictates otherwise. 

j.	Bumping the ball off the tee during warm-ups is not a strike and will be called a no-pitch by the home plate umpire.

k.	Any offensive coach physically assisting a base runner while the ball is in play will result in that runner being called out.

l.	There will automatically be two (2) outs, when the last batter of the half inning comes to the plate; any out made will be considered the third (3rd) out of the inning.

m.	If a runner misses a base, it will be an appeal play to the umpire.

n.	It is not an out in T-Ball for a batter to step on home plate.

B.	DEFENSE:

a.	All players will play in the field, with five (5) infielders, no catcher, and the remainder in the outfield.  Optionally, a coach can play with a catcher as its sixth infielder.

b.	The outfielders must remain 20 feet behind baselines (umpire’s judgment) or in the outfield grass.  If not, the offensive manager has the option of taking the play or re-batting.

c.	No more than two (2) players are allowed to “play up” in the infield area.  The “up” players must be no closer than the distance from home plate to the pitching rubber (umpire’s judgment).  

d.	On an attempt to record a force out of the batter at first base, the ball must be thrown by any/all fielders to the first baseman. The first baseman is the only player allowed to tag the batter or base to record a force out at first base.  Recording an out on a base runner attempting second base, third base, or home plate may be a "tag" play by any infielder, including the pitcher.  

e.	Players may only play the pitcher position one inning maximum per game.  For substitution and/or injury purposes, one inning is defined as one pitch (or swing on the tee).

f.	To record an out when any outfielder fields the ball in the area of the outfield, the player must throw the ball to a player in the infield. If the player fielding the ball in the outfield runs the ball to any base, or tags a runner going to a base, the ball will be declared dead and the runner will be awarded the base. Any base runners will be awarded the base they were running towards.

g.	Play will be stopped by the umpire when a ball hit in play is possessed by a defensive player who has successfully stopped the lead runner from advancing. Any time the lead runner abandons any effort to advance his position, time will be called. The ball will be declared dead.  However, if the defensive team elects to make a play on a subsequent runner before time is called, the lead runner may attempt to advance. Dead Ball: The ball will be declared dead by the umpire, and all offensive and defensive play will stop when all runners are stopped and abandon all effort to advance their position. Runners who are less than half-way to the next base must return to the previous base once the umpire declares the play dead.  Such runners may not be called out while returning to the previous base. The decision of whether a runner is half-way to the next base when a ball is declared dead shall be made by the umpire at his discretion.  This is not an arguable rule.

h.	The defensive player listed as pitcher will stay in the ten (10) foot circle until ball is hit. The player may have one foot outside of the circle. PENALTY: Offense gets choice of play or re-bat.

i.	T-Ball teams may have two (2) Coaches on defense and they must remain behind the outfielders until the play is over. PENALTY: Delay dead ball option to the offense when play is complete.

j.	Any player who fields the ball and is throwing the ball to any base for an out must throw it overhand. The ball should be thrown to best of the player's ability and not intentionally thrown in the direction of the ground so it rolls to the base
 
OREGON PARK COMMON RULES FOR 6U, 7U AND 8U

A.	MANAGER AND COACHES: 
a.	Each team will be allowed four (4) adults in the dugout, one (1) manager and three (3) coaches.

B.	SPECIAL RULES: 
a.	If a batter squares to bunt and then swings, he will be called out (umpires decision).

C.	OFFENSE:
a.	Any base runner leaving the base before the ball reaches home plate is out (Dead Ball, umpire’s decision).
b.	After one warning per game per player for slinging his bat, the batter will be out, a dead ball called, and no runners advance.
c.	An offensive batter will receive five (5) pitches before being declared out. He may be called out on three (3) swinging strikes. If fifth (5th) pitch is fouled he may continue to bat. If fifth (5th) pitch is fouled and caught it is an out. If the fifth (5th) pitch or 3rd strike is a bunted foul the batter is out. 
d.	If a runner misses a base, it will be an appeal play to the umpire.
e.	There will be a maximum of seven (7) runs per inning per team. The game will be considered final if any team is ahead by 15 runs after 4 innings or 8 runs after 5 innings. Umpires shall not call a game early before a team has been mathematically eliminated.

D.	DEFENSE:
a.	Any base runner leaving the base before the ball reaches home plate is out (umpire’s decision). The ball is dead and all other runners return to base occupied prior to pitch. The pitch will not count. If a runner misses a base it will be an appeal play to the umpire. (See appeals and protests.)
b.	Only ten (10) players on the field (four (4) outfielders).
c.	The defensive player listed as pitcher will stay in the ten (10) foot circle until ball is hit. The player may have one foot outside of the circle. PENALTY: Offense gets choice of play or re-bat.
d.	Play shall be stopped by the defensive team heading off or stopping the lead runner.
 
OREGON PARK LEAGUE SPECIFIC RULES 6U

A.	BUNTING:
a.	No bunting is allowed prior to spring break
b.	After Spring Break, bunting is allowed with the following stipulations:
i.	Each team is allowed one (1) successful (fair or caught as an out) bunt per inning.  
ii.	If it happens to be the hitters fifth pitch, or after two strikes, and a bunt is attempted and the ball is fouled off, the batter will be declared out.  
iii.	All subsequent successful bunts will be called out by the umpire after the first successful bunt in an inning.  
iv.	Bunts must clear the 20 foot mark in front of home plate to be considered to be in “fair” territory.  
v.	There is no suicide squeeze play in this instance because the base runner cannot leave a base until the ball is hit into play by the batter.  However, a runner may attempt to score from third as long as the ball is ruled a “fair” ball by the umpire.
B.	For the first 21 calendar days of the season (opening day included), the offensive batter will receive five pitches or three swings, whichever first occurs.  After this, the ball will be placed on a tee for the batter to hit.  The 21-day limit may be extended at the discretion of the President, Athletic Director, and Age Group Coordinator for issues with game postponements.
C.	When a batting tee is used on the playing field, it will be placed in front of home plate.
D.	While the tee is still in use, one coach may assist batters with placement of the tee and ball.  When the tee is not in use, coaches are not permitted to assist batters.
E.	On an attempt to get an out at first base should the ball be overthrown (regardless if the ball ends up in fair or foul territory), the runner reaching 1st base may advance, at risk, to 2nd base only. The runner is restricted to the next base regardless of what actions the defensive player takes with the ball. Runners already on base may only advance up to two bases from where they began the play, at their own risk. All runners are always at risk until play is stopped by the umpire, which will be when the umpire deems the lead runner to be stopped or stops himself. In the event the runner continues beyond their allotted base, the umpires will return them to the specified base per this rule.
F.	There will be two defensive coaches allowed in the outfield prior to Spring Break.  Only one coach is allowed in the outfield after Spring Break.  (NOTE:  The outfield coach must remain 10 feet behind the outfielders.)
G.	On an attempt to record an out of the batter at first base, the ball must be thrown to the first baseman if fielded by the pitcher. The pitcher may not tag the batter or base to record an out on the batter before he/she reaches first.
 
OREGON PARK LEAGUE SPECIFIC RULES FOR 7U AND 8U 

A.	Bunting is allowed with the following stipulations: 
i.	Each team is allowed one (1) successful (fair or caught as an out) bunt per inning.  

ii.	If it happens to be the hitters fifth pitch, or after two strikes, and a bunt is attempted and the ball is fouled off, the batter will be declared out.  

iii.	All subsequent successful bunts will be called out by the umpire after the first successful bunt in an inning.  

iv.	Bunts must clear the 20 foot mark in front of home plate to be considered to be in “fair” territory.  

v.	There is no suicide squeeze play in this instance because the base runner cannot leave a base until the ball is hit into play by the batter.  However, a runner may attempt to score from third as long as the ball is ruled a “fair” ball by the umpire.


B.	7 year olds only - On an attempt to get an out at first base should the ball be overthrown (regardless if the ball ends up in fair or foul territory), the runner reaching 1st base may advance, at risk, to 2nd base only. The runner is restricted to the next base regardless of what actions the defensive player takes with the ball. Runners already on base may only advance up to two bases from where they began the play, at their own risk. All runners are always at risk until play is stopped by the umpire, which will be when the umpire deems the lead runner to be stopped or stops himself. In the event the runner continues beyond their allotted base, the umpires will return them to the specified base per this rule.

C.	There will be one defensive coach allowed in the outfield.  This will be only allowed for game played prior to spring break during the spring season for eight year olds.  A coach will be allowed in the outfield for the entire season for seven year olds. A coach is allowed in the outfield for the entirety of the fall season for both seven and eight year olds.  (NOTE:  The outfield coach must remain 10 feet behind the outfielders.)

 
OREGON PARK LEAGUE SPECIFIC RULES 9U AND 10U

A.	PITCH COUNT LIMITS AND RULES:










 	No rest req.	1 day rest req.	2 days rest req.	Single day maximum
Pre-Spring Break	0 – 15	16 – 30	31 +	45
Post-Spring Break	0 – 20 	21 – 40 	41 +	55
End of Year Tournament	0 – 20	21 – 40	41 +	60

a.	From the chart above, if a pitcher reaches a “days rest” threshold or the single day max while facing a batter, they can complete the at bat and have their official count reverted to the prior threshold number as long as they leave the game after (or during) that at bat.  The end of an inning due to a base running out, or by any other means, also constitutes the end of an at bat for the purpose of this rule.

Example: Oswald Oregon is a 10u player and has a pitch count of 38 to start a batter in a postseason tournament game.  He throws 5 pitches to the next batter, taking his total for the game to 43, and then is removed after (or during) the at bat.  His official total can be entered as 40 for that game and only 1 day of rest is required instead of 2.

b.	Number of days rest is always calculated based on the scheduled start day and time of a game.  For example, if Oswald Oregon’s pitch count for a tournament Thursday game is 40, he must rest on Friday (one day of rest).  He can pitch in any game with a start time on Saturday. 



B.	MANAGER & COACHES: 

a.	Any manager who calls time and goes onto the playing field more than once in one (1) inning, per pitcher (not game) to talk to a player or players, will be required to remove the current pitcher. The inning begins as soon as the third out in the previous half inning is recorded.

b.	Any manager or coach going on to the playing field to talk to the same batter (or batter going to the dugout or bench to talk to a manager or coach) more than one (1) time per bat will receive a warning, on the second offense the coach will not be allowed to coach either base the remainder of the game

C.	SPECIAL RULES

a.	If a batter squares to bunt and then swings, he will be called out (Umpires decision).

b.	Three (3) strikes is an out even if the ball is dropped. No dropped third strike

c.	Any base runner leaving the base before the ball reaches home plate is out (umpires decision). The ball is dead and all other runners return to base occupied prior to pitch. The pitch will not count. If a runner misses a base it will be an appeal play to the umpire. (See appeals and protests.)

d.	Once the pitcher has possession of the ball and is in contact with the pitching rubber, any base runner who does not immediately advance to the next base or return to the previously occupied base is out (umpires decision). The Ball is dead and no other runners may advance until the next pitched ball has crossed the plate. EXCEPTION: The runner is not out if a play is made on the runner (i.e., making a move toward the runner or faking a throw.)

e.	Balk Rule: There will be no balks called. In the event a pitcher faints a throw home, time will be called and it will be “no pitch.”

f.	In the event of a walk with runners on base, the batter may only advance to first base. If there is an overthrow from the catcher to the pitcher all runners may advance at their own risk.

g.	A pitcher must be removed from the mound if he hits 3 batters in an inning.

OREGON PARK LEAGUE SPECIFIC RULES FOR 9U 
A.	SPECIAL RULES
a.	In 9U, for the first 14 calendar days of the season (opening day included), there will be a “No Base-On-Balls Rule”.  The 14-day limit may be extended at the discretion of the President, Athletic Director, and Age Group Coordinator for issues with game postponements.  When a pitcher throws a 4th ball (as indicated by the umpire), the ball must be returned to the pitcher on the mound.  Then the play is dead and the umpire will indicate to the coach for the batting team to enter the field and pitch to the current batter, up to 2 pitches.  A foul ball on the second pitch will result in another pitch unless a defensive out is made, including a caught foul tip.  If no contact is made on the 2nd (or subsequent pitch) the batter is out by strikeout.  While the kid is pitching, a hit-by-pitch still results in the batter being awarded first base.
The Coach Pitcher must stand in front of the pitcher’s mound, within 3 feet of the mound (umpire’s judgement).  The current defensive pitcher can play on either side of the mount (not behind the mound) within 3 feet of the mound (umpire’s judgement).  No bunting and no stealing when the coach is on the field.  
Any batted ball that hits the pitching coach will be a dead ball and a no pitch. If the pitching coach intentionally (in the umpire’s judgment) allows the ball to hit him the batter will be out and a dead ball called. No runner may advance
The offensive coach (pitcher) must attempt to leave the field and try to pick up the batter's bat. The offensive coach (pitcher) that does not attempt to get off the field and interferes with the defensive player to keep him from making a play will cause the batter to be out. No runners advance.
During the “No-Base-On-Balls” phase of the season, a pitcher is allowed to pitch no more than one (1) inning in a game. For the purposes of the maximum number of innings a player can pitch, 1 pitch in an inning constitutes 1 inning pitched.

 
OREGON PARK RULES 11 & 12 Year Olds

A. PITCH COUNT:

Pre-Spring Break	55/40
Post Spring Break	65/50
End of Year Tournament	70/50

a.	A pitcher may only pitch a cumulative number of pitches in a 72 hour period as per the above chart.  A pitcher may complete any batter that he begins prior to reaching the maximum number of pitches.  No allowance is given for completing a batter for the lower number. The pitcher must be removed from the game prior to throwing the lower number in a single day to pitch again in a 72 hour period.  Once a pitcher reaches the lower number cumulatively in any 72 hour window, they must be given two full calendar days of rest from their last pitch thrown.  A 72 hour period is defined by the first game time of any given day.

B.	MANAGER & COACHES:

a.	Any manager who calls time and goes onto the playing field more than once in one (1) inning, per pitcher (not game) to talk to a player or players, will be required to remove the current pitcher. The inning begins as soon as the third out in the previous half inning is recorded.

b.	Any manager or coach going on to the playing field to talk to the same batter (or batter going to the dugout or bench to talk to a manager or coach) more than one (1) time per bat will receive a warning, on the second offense the coach will not be allowed to coach either base the remainder of the game.

C.	SPECIAL RULES:

a.	If a batter squares to bunt and then swings, he will be called out (Umpires decision).


OREGON PARK TOURNAMENT RULES

A.	Pitching rules will be those as listed in the Oregon Park rulebook for 9-10’s and 11-12’s separately.

B.	The regular season substitution rules remain in effect. No player may sit twice until all players have sat once. This must be protested at the time of occurrence. However, there will be no discussion of the intent of equal play. Coaches will be encouraged to rotate and substitute as they see fit so long as they adhere to the substitution rule as it pertains to players sitting.

C.	Championship games will have no time limit in every age group, schedule permitting at the discretion of the league President and Athletic Director. The Championship game for this purpose will be the first and “if necessary” game.

D.	Both teams must provide an official scorer to be seated in the scorer’s box. The Home team must keep the official book and scorers should agree on the score at the end of every inning.

E.	The Pitching log must be filled out and verified by a coach of both teams at the end of the game. The logs will be listed on the online tournament bracket. The logs should be checked prior to the start of the next game, any teams not filling out the logs will not be allowed to begin their next game until they do so. Any team filling out, but not verifying the Pitching Log, and which does not protest the log prior to taking the field for their next game, will by silence be considered to agree with the log for their team and their previous opponent’s log.

F.	Each coordinator shall post a tourney bracket and ensure that it is up to date and correct each day.

G.	All protests MUST be settled prior to a game continuing. This should be done in person by the Board Member on duty and either in person or by phone to either the Athletic Director or President, prior to play resuming as per the Dizzy Dean rules. All decisions will be final.

H.	The official start time MUST be noted on the Home Team page of the official scorebook as agreed to by both teams and umpire. This time will prevail in the case of any disputes.

I.	A new inning is considered to have started as soon as the previous inning ends. Any time disputes should be handled as protests.

J.	If a team has less than the minimum required number of players, that team will play with only the players available. No substitute players will be allowed during tournament play.

K.	Once the game begins, if a player is injured and unable to participate, or if a player has to leave for any reason, the head coach will have two options: (1) take an out when that player’s spot in the batting order comes, and that player will remain eligible to return to the game when possible, or (2) remove that player for the remainder of the game and not take an out for that player’s spot in the batting order.

L.	The maximum number of runs per inning will remain in effect for the tournament. At the T-Ball age group, a max of 7 runs per inning will be allowed.


M.	In the event of a mid-game suspension for any reason, all tournament games will be rescheduled to be played to the full time limit or innings limit, at the discretion of the league President and/or Athletic Director.

N.	Home Team Determination:

a.	For the first round of the tournament, the higher seed will be the home team (this applies to a team’s first game in the event that team receives a first round bye).
b.	For the second round through the championship game, the home team will be determined by a coin flip at the home plate meeting.
c.	For the championship game, the undefeated team advancing through the winner’s bracket will be the home team.  For the “if necessary” second championship game, the home team will be determined by coin flip.

O.	In order to determine batting cage time & dugout assignments, the following will be implemented during the tournaments:

a.	For the first round of the tournament, the higher seed (lower number) will occupy the first base dugout and have the batting cage 60 minutes prior to the game.  The lower seed will occupy the third base dugout and have the batting cages 35 minutes prior to game time.
b.	For the championship game, the undefeated team advancing through the winner’s bracket will occupy the first base dugout and have the batting cage 60 minutes prior to game time.
c.	For all other tournament games, the team on the “top line” of the bracket will be the home team for these purposes (first base dugout and batting cage 60 minutes prior to the game).  The “bottom line” of the bracket will be the away team (third base dugout and cage 35 minutes prior).
P.	In tournament play, all ties must be broken in all age groups.  “Extra” innings (after maximum number of innings or time has expired) will be started with one out and a runner on second base.  The runner on second base will be the player in the lineup that bats before the current hitter who is starting the inning.

REGULAR SEASON BATTING CAGE GUIDELINES

Use of the batting cages is based on the following guidelines:

•	Batting cages times are based on the start time of your game and not a specified number of minutes.

•	Home teams have batting practice that begins 60 minutes prior to the scheduled start time of their game and ends 35 minutes prior to the scheduled start time of the game.

•	Visiting teams have batting practice that begins 35 minutes prior to the scheduled start time of their game and ends 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time of the game.

•	Both teams are to be at the field ready to play 10 minutes before the scheduled start time of their game.

•	For games schedule on Field 8, teams are limited to one of the two cages per team and may choose to both hold batting practice at the same time, provided they are finished no less than 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time of their game.

•	All batting cages are marked as to the age or field that they are reserved for. Use of the cages prior to games is limited to this age group, so that if a team shows up late they can immediately begin batting practice.

•	Teams that arrive late, must be finished by the designated number of minutes before the scheduled start time of their game. I.E. a home team for a 6:00 P.M. game must be out of the cage no later than 5:25

•	If present, the mats in the cage must be used by the batter and pitcher. If you move the L-screen back or forward, you must also move the mat. This helps to protect the batting cage floor and allows us to replace only the mats as needed.

•	The hitting of any balls, except for plastic balls into the fence of any batting cage is prohibited.

 
FALL BASEBALL

The Fall-Ball program at Oregon Park is intended to be a season of instruction and having fun.  This is actually the beginning of the season.  All players move up an age bracket from where they played in the spring.  This will allow the players to start learning the new age group rules and some different positions.  We encourage playing the participants in positions they may not get a chance to play in the spring season.  We ask that managers and coaches teach the players how the game is played, techniques, of the game, the responsibilities of each player’s position(s) on the field, good sportsmanship, etc.
Please remember that this is a time of year when children are under stress (due to school being back in session, new teachers, adjustments in sleeping habits, etc.) Let this be a fun time for them on the baseball field.
Depending on the number of registrants, we will try to schedule all games Monday through Thursday (exception for Labor Day week which may be played Tuesday through Friday).  
Rainouts will be rescheduled by the President or Athletic Director after consultation with the Concession Coordinator as it relates to concession scheduling. The League Coordinators are responsible for notifying all affected coaches of reschedules. The rescheduled game MUST be played on the date and time indicated.  The Athletic Director will be responsible for notifying the proper personnel for rescheduling umpires and scorekeeper.
The rules for the Fall-Ball season will mirror those of the Spring season with a few minor exceptions. Those exceptions are as follows:
•	At 6U, the tee will not be allowed after Fall Break.
•	At 9U, the “No Base-On-Balls” rule will be in effect prior to Fall Break and may be extended at the discretion of the President, Athletic Director, and Age Group Coordinator.
•	The pitching limits used for the entirety of the Fall-Ball regular season will be those listed as the “Pre-Spring Break” limits. Pitching limits for the tournament will be those listed for the “End of Season Tourney.” These limits are structured in a way to motivate all coaches to develop multiple pitchers.

OREGON PARK BADGE RULES
A.	All named head and assistant coaches must have an OPBA issued ID badge displayed at or above the waist on the front side of their body at games and practices.  At least one badged coach should be present for all team games and practices.
B.	The Umpires and OP Board members will be enforcing the rule.  One (1) verbal warning will be given to any head coach or named assistant who fails to have his or her ID displayed properly.  If the person without the ID fails to comply in a timely manner by either displaying their badge on their body or by leaving the field, the umpire or board member will bring it to the attention of the head coach.  If he or she fails to correct the issue in a timely manner, the head coach will be ejected from the game and be subject to the normal OPBA penalties for ejections.
